$Id$   -*-text-*-

This is the README file for the 'bedrock' project.

Overview
========

Bedrock is a server side scripting environment that can be used with Apache
web servers. It allows HTML programmers to create dynamic web pages through
the use of a small set of HTML-like tags. Bedrock is an enabling technology
that glues together HTML pages and dynamic data (HTML form data, data from
databases, and system services) to create web applications.

Bedrock differs significantly from most web application development
environments that either generate HTML pages as output (e.g. CGIs, Servlets)
or are themselves programs embedded within HTML pages (e.g. PHP, Mason, ASP,
etc) by allowing the developer to assemble pages from object oriented
components.

At the time of writing (2008-02-28), the project is being cleaned up after a
long period of inactivity. Version 1.6.4 was released in 2001, and since then
most production environments have been running a variation of that version,
usually with minor modifications.

Such modifications have been recently collected and tagged in CVS as version
1.6.5.

The project is currently being revived to allow it to run on Apache 2.x
version servers (versions through 1.6.5 worked only on Apache 1.3.x).

See the "Prerequisites" section below for other programs that must be
installed and configured on your system before you can install the 'bedrock'
package.


See the 'BUGS' file for information on reporting bugs.

See the 'INSTALL' file for installation instructions.

See the 'HACKING' file for developer build instructions and the like.

See the 'NEWS' file for changes for this release, and a running list of
changes from previous releases. Any incompatibilities with previous versions
will be noted in the 'NEWS' file.


Prerequisites
-------------
'bedrock' is intended to be built on Unix and Unix-like systems, so expects a
standard set of utilities (cat, sed, awk, rm, ...) to be present. These
utilities are not explicitly listed below as prerequisites as they should be
present on any modern Unix or GNU/Linux system (or Cygwin, if the Universe
hates you ;-). We also do not explicitly list those Perl modules that are part
of the core library shipped with Perl (e.g., Data::Dumper, MIME::Base64, etc.)

The various 'bedrock' components are primarily implemented in Perl, so of
course a Perl installation is needed. Current 'bedrock' development is done
using Perl 5.8.8, and uses features that first originatedin 5.8.0 (such as
Hash::Util::lock_hash); thus at least version 5.8.0 is required.

    Prerequisite  Version    Required By     URI
    ------------  ---------  -----------     ------------------------------
    Perl 5        >= 5.8.0   all             ftp://ftp.cpan.org/pub/CPAN/src/perl-5.8.8.tar.gz

    DBI           >= 1.13    all             http://www.perl.com/CPAN-local/modules/by-module/DBI/
    Date::Calc    >= 4.3     BLMs            http://www.perl.com/CPAN-local/modules/by-module/Date/
    Getopt::Long  ???        cli tools       http://www.perl.com/CPAN-local/modules/by-module/Getopt/
    GDBM_File     >= 1.03    BLMs            http://www.perl.com/CPAN-local/modules/by-module/GDBM_File/
    Net::FTP      >= 2.56    BLMs            http://www.perl.com/CPAN-local/modules/by-module/Net/
    Net::SMTP     >= 2.15    BLMs            http://www.perl.com/CPAN-local/modules/by-module/Net/
    Term::ReadKey ???        cli tools       http://www.perl.com/CPAN-local/modules/by-module/Term/
